NEXT3(R) is a flavor of the widely used Ext3 file system with built-in support for snapshots. 
Developed by [http://www.ctera.com/ CTERA Networks], NEXT3 is licensed under the GPL.

== Features ==
* Backward and forward compatible with Ext3
* Incremental, volume level, read-only snapshots
* Snapshots use available file system disk space
* Snapshot deletion automatically frees up disk space
* Retains Ext3 stability including journaling and fsck
* Minimal performance overhead (in average usage scenarios)
* No upper limit on number or size of snapshots

== Documentation ==

=== Users ===

* [[FAQ]]
* [[Getting started]]
* [[Moving from Ext3 and back]]
* [[Changelog]]
* [[Known issues]]
* [[License]]

=== Developers ===

* [[Technical overview]]
* [http://sourceforge.net/projects/next3/files/Next3_Snapshots.pdf/download Snapshots design (PDF format)]
* [[Diagrams]]
* [[Code documentation]]
* [[On-disk format]]
* [[User-kernel API]]
* [[Ext4 snapshots TODO]]

== Source Code ==
The latest Next3 code as well as in development Ext4 snapshots code is available on [https://github.com/amir73il/ext4-snapshots github].

Please contact the project administrator if you would like to contribute to Next3 or Ext4 snapshots development.

== Testing ==
Next3 is being used in production on ARM and X86_64 platforms.

Ext4 snapshots has undergone basic testing on X86 and X86_64.

Please post bugs to the [https://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/next3-devel next3-devel mailing list].

Please contact the project administrator if you would like to contribute to the project by testing on your platform.

== Benchmarks ==
[[Bonnie++]]

Disk benchmark of ext4 snapshots with [http://global.phoronix-test-suite.com/index.php?k=profile&u=amir73il-4632-11284-26560 phoronix-test-suite]

Please post benchmark results to the [https://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/next3-devel next3-devel mailing list].

Please contact the project administrator if you would like to contribute to the project by running benchmarks.

== LWN Articles ==
May  2010: [https://lwn.net/Articles/387231/ The Next3 filesystem]

June 2011: [https://lwn.net/Articles/446618/ Ext4 snapshot concerns]

== Help and support ==
Please post support questions to the [https://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/next3-users next3-users mailing list].

Please post bugs and technical questions to the [https://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/next3-devel next3-devel mailing list].

Please contact the project administrator if you would like to contribute to the project in any way.
